Task 3 – Top 10 Companies (Tree Map) :

Created a tree map showing the top 10 companies (by company size) that posted jobs with Role = Data Engineer and Job Title = Data Scientist.
The size of each rectangle represents the company size — bigger rectangle = larger company.
Only very specific postings are included after applying strict filters.

Filters / Conditions Applied :

Role must be “Data Engineer”:
→ Dragged Role field to Filters shelf
→ Selected only “Data Engineer”
→ This ensures only Data Engineer roles are shown.

Job Title must be “Data Scientist”:
→ Dragged Job Title field to Filters shelf
→ Selected only “Data Scientist”
→ This keeps only exact matches for Data Scientist titles.

Exclude Asian countries:
→ Created calculated field named asia country (reused from Task 2)
→ Set it to False (filtered to exclude Asia)
→ OR manually unselected Asian countries in the Country filter
→ This removes all postings from Asian countries.

Exclude any countries starting with the letter “C”:
→ Dragged Country field to Filters shelf
→ Went to General tab
→ Excluded all countries starting with “C” using wildcard exclude “C*”
→ This removes countries like China, Canada, Colombia, etc.

Latitude must be below 10:
→ Dragged Latitude field to Filters shelf
→ Selected “Range of Values”
→ Set maximum < 10 (e.g., up to 9.99)
→ Note: This filter makes the tree map blank in the main sheet.
So I moved it to the dashboard with a floating message:
“Apply Latitude < 10 to see filtered view (currently showing all latitudes).”

Preference must be Female:
→ Dragged Preference field to Filters shelf
→ Selected only “Female”

Qualification must be exactly B.Tech:
→ Dragged Qualifications field to Filters shelf
→ Selected only “B.Tech”
→ Note: This filter also causes blank result in main view.
Moved to dashboard with floating text message:
“Apply B.Tech qualification to filter (currently showing all qualifications).”

Job Posting Date must be between 01/01/2023 and 06/01/2023:
→ Dragged Job Posting Date field to Filters shelf
→ Selected “Range of Dates”
→ Set start: 01/01/2023 → end: 06/01/2023
→ This includes only postings in the first 6 months of 2023.

Job Portal = LinkedIn
→ Dragged Job Portal field to Filters shelf
→ Selected only “LinkedIn”
→ Note: This filter blanks the map when combined with others.
Added as optional in dashboard with message:
“Apply LinkedIn portal filter to see only LinkedIn postings.”

Company Size ≥ 10,000
→ Dragged Company Size field to Filters shelf
→ Selected “Range of Values”
→ Set minimum = 10,000
→ Note: This also causes blank when all filters are on.
Added floating message in dashboard:
“Apply Company Size ≥ 10,000 to filter larger companies.”

Contact Person name must end with a vowel
→ Created calculated field named ends with vowel:
→ Formula:textCONTAINS("aeiouAEIOU", RIGHT([Contact Person], 1)) = TRUE→ Dragged to Filters shelf → Selected True
→ This keeps only contact names ending with a, e, i, o, u (case insensitive).
Chart must only be displayed between 3 PM and 5 PM IST
→ Created calculated field named show chart time (reused from previous tasks):textIF DATEPART('hour', NOW()) >= 15
AND DATEPART('hour', NOW()) < 17
THEN TRUE
ELSE FALSE
END→ Dragged to Filters shelf → Selected True
→ This hides the chart outside 3:00 PM – 4:59 PM IST.

Chart Setup Summary:

Marks: Tree Map (selected from Show Me panel)
Size: SUM(Company Size) (bigger rectangle = larger company)
Color: Automatic / Company (for distinction)
Label: Company (shows company name inside rectangles)
Title: “Task3-Tree Map”
Top 10: Used Top N filter on Company (by SUM(Company Size), Top 10)

Important Note on Dashboard:
Many filters (Latitude < 10, B.Tech qualification, LinkedIn portal, Company Size ≥ 10,000) cause the tree map to become blank when all are applied together.
So I created a Dashboard where:

Core filters are applied by default
Sensitive filters are shown as quick filters (user can turn them on/off)
Floating text boxes show messages like:
“Apply this filter to see updated view (currently showing broader data)”
This way the dashboard stays interactive and useful even when strict filters remove all data.

Result:
The tree map highlights top companies (like DTE Energy) that posted Data Scientist jobs under the applied conditions.
Only one large rectangle appears in the main view — showing how strict the rules are.
