Task 4 – Qualification Drilldown Map (Map with Click) – Filter Implementation in Tableau
Objective
Created an interactive map visualization showing job postings in Africa for qualifications B.Tech, M.Tech, or PhD.
Each orange dot represents a job posting (plotted using average Latitude and Longitude).
Clicking on any dot drills down to a second map showing more detailed/exact location information.
Only specific Full-Time jobs are included after applying strict filters.
How I Built It (Step-by-Step Structure in Tableau)

Created main sheet: Task4a-Africa job map → Primary map with dots across Africa.
Created second sheet: Task4b-drilldown location map → Detailed/zoomed view when clicked.
Combined both sheets into a Dashboard named “Task4-Map with Click”.
Used Dashboard → Actions → Filter action: Clicking a dot on the main map filters the drilldown sheet.
Added floating text message: “Click any orange dot to see detailed location drilldown”
Added time restriction note: “Map visible only between 3 PM and 6 PM IST”


Filters / Conditions Applied (how I implemented them)

Qualification must be B.Tech, M.Tech, or PhD
→ Dragged Qualifications field to Filters shelf
→ Selected only “B.Tech”, “M.Tech”, and “PhD”
→ This keeps only higher education qualifications.

Work Type = Full-Time
→ Dragged Work Type field to Filters shelf
→ Selected only “Full-Time”

Country must be in Africa (other countries ignored)
→ Created calculated field named Is Africa (or similar):
→ Formula:textCONTAINS(
    "Algeria;Angola;Benin;Botswana;Burkina Faso;Burundi;Cabo Verde;Cameroon;Central African Republic;Chad;Comoros;Republic Of Congo;Democratic Republic Of Congo;Cote d'Ivoire;Djibouti;Egypt;Equatorial Guinea;Eritrea;Eswatini;Ethiopia;Gabon;Gambia;Ghana;Guinea;Guinea-Bissau;Kenya;Lesotho;Liberia;Libya;Madagascar;Malawi;Mali;Mauritania;Mauritius;Morocco;Mozambique;Namibia;Niger;Nigeria;Rwanda;Sao Tome and Principe;Senegal;Seychelles;Sierra Leone;Somalia;South Africa;South Sudan;Sudan;Tanzania;Togo;Tunisia;Uganda;Zambia;Zimbabwe",
    [Country]
)→ Dragged Is Africa to Filters shelf → Selected True
→ This keeps only African countries (listed in a semicolon-separated string) and ignores all others.

Job Title must start with “D”
→ Dragged Job Title field to Filters shelf
→ Went to Wild Card tab
→ Selected “Starts with” → typed “D”
→ This includes titles like “Data Scientist”, “Developer”, “Director”, etc.

Preference = Male
→ Dragged Preference field to Filters shelf
→ Selected only “Male”

Company Size must be greater than 80,000
→ Dragged Company Size field to Filters shelf
→ Selected “Range of Values”
→ Set minimum > 80,000 (e.g., 80,001 and above)

Contact Person must start with “A”
→ Dragged Contact Person field to Filters shelf
→ Went to Wild Card tab
→ Selected “Starts with” → typed “A”
→ This keeps only contact names starting with A (e.g., Alex, Ahmed, Anna, etc.).

Job Portal = Indeed
→ Dragged Job Portal field to Filters shelf
→ Selected only “Indeed”

Salary Range > $20,000
→ Created/reused calculated field salary > 20000:
→ Used the same minimum salary extracted logic (from previous tasks)
→ Then: [minimum salary extracted] > 20000
→ Dragged to Filters shelf → Selected True

Chart must only be displayed between 3 PM and 6 PM IST
→ Created calculated field named show chart time:textIF DATEPART('hour', NOW()) >= 15
AND DATEPART('hour', NOW()) < 18
THEN TRUE
ELSE FALSE
END→ Dragged to Filters shelf → Selected True
→ This hides the map outside 3:00 PM – 5:59 PM IST (based on system time).

Map Setup Summary:

Main Sheet (Task4a-Africa job map):
Columns: AVG(Longitude)
Rows: AVG(Latitude)
Mark type: Circle
Color: Qualifications (orange for B.Tech, brown for M.Tech, gray for PhD)
Size: Adjusted for visibility
Detail/Tooltip:  Company, Country

Drilldown Sheet (Task4b-drilldown location map):
Similar map setup but configured for more detail (e.g., different zoom level or extra labels).
Filtered dynamically via dashboard action.

Dashboard (Task4-Map with Click):
Main map on top/left
Drilldown map below/right
Action: Click on main map dot filters the drilldown sheet
Floating text messages for time restriction and interaction guide


Result Note:
The map displays orange dots only in Africa for Full-Time jobs matching all conditions.
Dots are colored by qualification level.
Clicking any dot opens a drilldown view with more precise location details.
Very few points appear due to the strict filters (e.g., Job Title starting with D, Contact starting with A, large company size, Indeed portal, salary > $20,000).
